course-notes/kindling.md, before:

# Kindling: Getting Ready to Spark!

## Playing with Fire: Essential Tools
+ Modern Browser with Web Inspector: Google Chrome 44+, Safari, Firefox, Opera
+ Text Editor

Pick a favorite website and open up your web inspector. Right click anywhere and select `inspect element`.

> Listen up! We're going to change the text, colors, and break something! Woohoo!

__Lecture Time__

Challenges: Create a fake headline, swap pictures, or create an exquisite corpse

Question: Did you just "hack" the website? Can it really be that easy? 

### Basics of the Web
+ 1's and 0's
+ Servers and Clients

### Website Structure - Overview
+ HTML -
> Websites from the 90s
> Modern Inspiration Gallery
+ CSS
> Investigate CSS Zen Garden
+ JS

First, there was just raw information. 

> Further Reading: [Evolution of Web Design](http://sixrevisions.com/web_design/the-evolution-of-web-design/)


## On Accessibility 
+ Colors
+ Screenreaders
+ Text sizing
+ Mobile first
+ No mouse/keyboard
+ Slow Internet
+ Cost of page visit
+ [Contrast](http://contrast-finder.tanaguru.com/)
+ [W3 Overview](https://www.quotes.uk.com/web-design/accessibility.php)

![Cost per Page Visit](https://blog.cloudflare.com/content/images/image04_4.png)
_Everybody wins when you keep your site as lightweight as possible_

### Next: [Sparks][sparks]



[kindling]: https://github.com/hydrosquall/sparky-website-tutorial/blob/master/course-notes/kindling.md
[sparks]: https://github.com/hydrosquall/sparky-website-tutorial/blob/master/course-notes/sparks.md
[ignition]: https://github.com/hydrosquall/sparky-website-tutorial/blob/master/course-notes/ignition.md

Commit message:

add codepen link and finish up kindling section

course-notes/kindling.md, after:

# Kindling: Getting Ready to Spark!

## Playing with Fire: Essential Tools
+ Modern Browser with Web Inspector: Google Chrome 44+, Safari, Firefox, Opera
+ Text Editor

Pick a favorite website and open up your web inspector. Right click anywhere and select `inspect element`.

> Listen up! We're going to change the text, colors, and break something! Woohoo!

Challenges: Create a fake headline, swap pictures, or create an exquisite corpse

Question: Did you just "hack" the website? Can it really be that easy? 

### Basics of the Web

> Listen up! We're going to talk about encoding information.

+ From smoke signals to Google.com: Boolean Encoding
+ Servers and Clients: Websites as Restaurants

### What Are Websites Made Of?

The Internet has its roots in information sharing for academic research projects. The commercialization of the internet helped drive many innovations that might have been secondary priority for academics but essential features for consumers and business, such as changeable fonts and streaming video. 

One could populate the internet entirely with text `.txt` files containing the world's information, but it would not be interactive and be a visually dull experience. It would still be useful (like a phonebook), but nobody reads phonebooks for fun. Markup languages breathe life into our favorite web pages! These are the languages you need to know!

<dl>
  <dt>HTML</dt>
  <dd>HyperText Markup Language: Organizing Information</dd>  
  <dt>CSS</dt>
  <dd>Cascading StyleSheets: Arranging and Changing Information Appearance</dd>  
  <dt>Javascript</dt>
  <dd>Brings Information to life</dd>
</dl>

_Why do we need 3 languages?_
> Using different languages for different tasks reflects a design philosophy called **modularization**. There are hacky ways to make some languages do the jobs of others (such as using Javascript to change text color or using HTML to control page styling /layout ), but doing this is discouraged. Modularization makes code easier to understand by humans. It also makes splitting up work for teams more convenient. Clearly written code is easier to debug (fix), maintain, and improve.  

See the cool things you can do with CSS: [CSS Zen Garden](http://www.csszengarden.com/)

## On Accessibility 

> Listen Up! In-class discussion about why designing for the weakest link benefits all users!

+ Colors
+ Screenreaders
+ Text sizing
+ Mobile first
+ No mouse/keyboard
+ Slow Internet
+ Cost of page visit
+ [Contrast](http://contrast-finder.tanaguru.com/)
+ [W3 Overview](https://www.quotes.uk.com/web-design/accessibility.php)

![Cost per Page Visit](https://blog.cloudflare.com/content/images/image04_4.png)
_Everybody wins when you keep your site as lightweight as possible_

### Next: [Sparks][sparks]

**Further Reading**: 
+ [Evolution of Web Design](http://sixrevisions.com/web_design/the-evolution-of-web-design/)

[kindling]: https://github.com/hydrosquall/sparky-website-tutorial/blob/master/course-notes/kindling.md
[sparks]: https://github.com/hydrosquall/sparky-website-tutorial/blob/master/course-notes/sparks.md
[ignition]: https://github.com/hydrosquall/sparky-website-tutorial/blob/master/course-notes/ignition.md
